Fixed #35612 -- Added security reporting guidelines. (#18658)
django/django: docs/internals/security.txt

.. _our public Trac instance: https://code.djangoproject.com/query

.. _reporting-guidelines:

Reporting guidelines
====================

* The vulnerability must be within Django and not a third-party package or the
  Python standard library. See the `Python security guidelines
  <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_ for reporting a vulnerability in

>   Python.

Author: This is basically scoping the things we can fix, it might still be valid but needs to be reported elsewhere

> * The vulnerability must be available within a :ref:`supported version

Reviewer: "must exist" perhaps?

> * The vulnerability must be available within a :ref:`supported version

Reviewer: "must exist" perhaps?

.. _our public Trac instance: https://code.djangoproject.com/query

.. _reporting-guidelines:

Reporting guidelines
====================

An identified vulnerability should meet the following guidelines to be

> considered valid:

Author: Do you have a wording suggestion (there's also the section above)?

> considered valid:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps something along the lines of:

```suggestion
considered valid:

If you are unsure whether your finding meets these guidelines, it's preferred to proceed with caution and report it :ref:`properly
  <reporting-security-issues>` as opposed to publicly. The security team will review your report and recommend the correct course of action.
```

(Probably as a note at the bottom of the section, rather than here). There might also be some value in moving this note up, since it's also true for a "security-looking bug".

> considered valid:

Author: Added a note to the bottom :+1:

.. _our public Trac instance: https://code.djangoproject.com/query

.. _reporting-guidelines:

Reporting guidelines
====================

An identified vulnerability should meet the following guidelines to be
considered valid:

* The vulnerability must be within Django and not a third-party package or the
  Python standard library. See the `Python security guidelines
  <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_ for reporting a vulnerability in
  Python itself.

* The vulnerability must exist within a :ref:`supported version
  <security-support>` of Django.

* Security vulnerabilities must have an impact to a production grade Django
  application. This means the following are not covered by our support policy:

  * Exploits that are only applicable during local development, for example
    using :djadmin:`runserver`.

>   * Exploits that are due to a user failure to adheres to security standards. A

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Exploits that are due to a user failure to adhere to security standards. A
```

.. _our public Trac instance: https://code.djangoproject.com/query

.. _reporting-guidelines:

Reporting guidelines
====================

> An identified vulnerability should meet the following guidelines to be

Reviewer 4: I would suggest this slight rewording because, to me, it felt a bit a contradiction to first think on "identified" and then "oh is not fully identified":
```suggestion
A potential vulnerability should meet the following guidelines to be
```

considered valid:

> * The vulnerability must be within Django and not a third-party package or the

Reviewer 5: Not just Django. The Django security team also takes reports for Django REST Framework, and I think also other packages developed in the Django GitHub organization. I'm not sure how and even if this should be mentioned here, since these are the guidelines for reporting security issues *in Django*, but this being stated so unequivocally, and as the first point, bugs me a little.

(in thinking of this, we should also remember [CVE-2024-39330](https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2024/jul/09/security-releases/) which was accepted as a vulnerability in Django, even though Django itself was not, in fact, vulnerable -- it just made it too easy for 3rd-party packages to be vulnerable)

>   Python standard library. See the `Python security guidelines
>   <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_ for reporting a vulnerability in
>   Python itself.

Reviewer 4: I would invert the order here to manage reader's expectations:
```suggestion
  Python standard library. For reporting vulnerabilities in Python itself, please
  refer to the `Python security guidelines <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_.
```

* The vulnerability must exist within a :ref:`supported version
  <security-support>` of Django.

> * The vulnerability must apply to a production grade Django application. This

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The vulnerability must apply to a production-grade Django application. This
```

  means the following are not covered by our support policy:

>   * Exploits that only affect local development, for example using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Exploits that only affect local development, for example when using
```

    :djadmin:`runserver`.

>   * Exploits caused by a developer's failure to follow security best practices.
>     A common example is the failure to sanitize user input. For other examples,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Exploits caused by a developer's failure to follow security best practices, such as
    failing to sanitize user input. For other examples,
```

    see our :ref:`security documentation <cross-site-scripting>`.

>   * Exploits within AI generated code that fail to follow security best

Reviewer 4: To avoid duplication of "follow ...", we could say:
```suggestion
  * Exploits in AI generated code that do not adhere to security best
```

.. _our public Trac instance: https://code.djangoproject.com/query

.. _security-report-evaluation:

How does Django evaluate a report
=================================

These are criteria used by the security team when evaluating whether a report
requires a security release:

* The vulnerability is within a :ref:`supported version <security-support>` of

>   Django.

Reviewer 4: Should be add here the other two common false-positive reports about:
1. issues in djangoproject.com (particularly that the admin is publicly accessible at `/admin/`)
2. the DMARC thingy? "we do not consider the lack of SPF or DMARC record an issue."

Author: As these are specific to djangoproject.com, so I don't think it fits in this specific list because I'm things that require a security release in Django core
But I do think we should document this somewhere. Maybe within the README of djangoproject.com :thinking:

* The vulnerability applies to a production-grade Django application. This means
  the following do not require a security release:

  * Exploits that only affect local development, for example when using
    :djadmin:`runserver`.
  * Exploits which fail to follow security best practices, such as failure to
    sanitize user input. For other examples, see our :ref:`security
    documentation <cross-site-scripting>`.

>   * Exploits in AI generated code that do not adhere to security best practices.

Reviewer 6: Hi, this is a bit late, but it's "AI-generated code" with a hyphen

The security team may conclude that the source of the vulnerability is within

> the Python standard library. In which case the reporter will be asked to report
> the vulnerability to the Python core team, for details see the `Python security
> guidelines <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_.

Reviewer 4: I would move the period further down:
```suggestion
the Python standard library, in which case the reporter will be asked to report
the vulnerability to the Python core team. For further details see the `Python security
guidelines <https://www.python.org/dev/security/>`_.
```

On occasion, a security release may be issued to help resolve a security
vulnerability within a popular third-party package. These reports should come
from the package maintainers.

> If you are unsure whether your finding meets these criteria, please still report

Reviewer 4: Shall we drop the `still`?
```suggestion
If you are unsure whether your finding meets these criteria, please report
```
